Mr. Paint Tools



Shape Options:
Stroke Color - Change the line color that surrounds shapes.
Stroke Width - Change the thickness of the lines surrounding shapes
Fill Color - Change the color of shape fill.
Fill Checkbox - When checked, will fill the drawn shape.
Stroke Type - When drawing in freeform, switch between different stroke designs.
Line Cap - Change line ends between rounded or squared.
Line Type - Switch between solid and dotted lines.
Dot Length - If dotted lines are selected, change the length (in pixels) of the dots
Rounded Checkbox - When checked, rectangles/squares will be drawn with rounded edges.
Arc Width - When rounded checkbox selected, adjusts the width of the arc for rounded shapes.
Arc Height - When rounded checkbox selected, adjusts the height of the arc for rounded shapes.
Pick an Image Button - Select an image to draw when using image drawing tool.
Choose Text Button - Enter the text to be drawn.
Font Size - Adjust the size of the text being drawn when using text drawing tool.
Crop - Crop the current image to the selected portion of the canvas.
Deselect - Remove selection.
Make Button - Connect user-placed dots when using Custom Polygon tool.
Number of Sides - Choose the number of sides for the shape being drawn when using Regular Polygon tool.



Drawing Tools:
None
Nothing will be drawn.

Freeform (F)
Click and drag in order to draw free of all directional restrictions.

Line (L)
Click, drag, and release from one point to another in order to draw a line from the starting point to the ending point. 

Erase (A)
Click and drag in order to clear all ink in a freeform-like manner.

Rectangle (R)
Click, drag, and release from one point to another in order to draw a rectangle from the starting point to the ending point.

Ellipse (E)
Click, drag and release from one point to another in order to draw an ellipse between the starting point and the ending point.

Image (I)
Click the "Pick an Image" button in order to select the image that you want to draw. Then simply use the tool like a rectangle and the image will be drawn. 

Text (T)
Click the "Choose Text" button in order to enter the text that you want to draw. Then click and drag to place the text.

Select (M)
Draw a rectangle of the area that you want to select. This area can be moved, deleted, or cropped to.

Fill (B)
Click on a portion of the image to fill that area with the specified fill color.

Square (S)
Click, drag, and release from one point to another in order to draw a square from the starting point to the ending point.

Circle (C)
Click, drag, and release from one point to another in order to draw a circle with a center at the starting point and radius as X distance from release point to starting point.

Custom Polygon (P)
Place points by clicking, and connect them by pressing the "Make" button.

Regular Polygon (G)
Click, drag, and release from one point to another in order to draw a regular polygon with a center at the starting point, radius as X distance from release point to starting point, and the specified number of sides.



Other Tools:
Dropper Tool (D)
Hover over pixels in order to see what color they are. Click to set the stroke and fill color to the color of the pixel clicked on.

New File (Ctrl+N)
Create a new blank canvas with given dimensions. Default is 700x700.

Open (Ctrl+O)
Pick an image file to open, and then display that image.

Save (Ctrl+S)
Save the current work to its file path if it already exists. If not, will use Save As instead.

Save As 
Save the current work to a specified path.

Undo (Ctrl+Z)
Undo the most recent action.

Redo (Ctrl+Y)
Redo the most recently undone action.

Zoom In
Zoom in on the top left corner of the current work.

Zoom Out
Zoom out from the top left corner of the current work.

Zoom Label
Click on the current zoom in order to restore 100% zoom.

Resize Arrows
Click and drag to resize the canvas. New area will be filled white.

Exit (Found under File menu)
Close Mr. Paint.

Flip Horizontally (Found under Edit menu)
Flip the current work horizontally.

Flip Vertically (Found under Edit menu)
Flip the current work vertically.

Resize (Found under Edit menu)
Resize the current work to given dimensions. This will warp image if given dimensions are not the same ratio as original dimensions.

Options (Found under Tools menu)
Access a variety of options to change. 

About (Found under Help menu)
View the version number and release notes of Mr. Paint.